---
title: "Hugo Tutorial Series 1: Meta Tags for SEO"
date: 2024-08-24T13:41:35+08:00
lastmod: 2024-08-24T13:41:35+08:00
avatar: /img/personal/avatar.jpg
cover: meta-tags-for-seo.svg
images:
  - meta-tags-for-seo.svg
categories:
  - English
  - 技术
  - Hugo Tutorial
tags:
  - SEO
---

This article will show you how to add SEO related meta tags to your Hugo site.

<!--more-->

This is an experimental article in my Hugo tutorial series. I will show you how to
add SEO related meta tags to your Hugo site, with a real-world example.

## Before starting

For anybody unfamiliar with SEO, it stands for Search Engine Optimization.
It is the practice of increasing the quantity and quality of traffic to your website through organic search engine results.

For more information, I recommend you to read the [SEO Starter Guide](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/fundamentals/seo-starter-guide) from Google.

## How Hugo can help us with SEO

Hugo provides several embedded templates for generating meta tags, you can find them in
[Embedded templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/embedded/). Some of them are
useful for SEO, such as `opengraph.html`.

We will use them in this article.

## Create a new partial template

First, we can create a `head.html` in the `layouts/partials` directory and include `opengraph.html` and `twitter_cards.html` in it.

```html
{{ template "_internal/opengraph.html" . }}
{{ template "_internal/twitter_cards.html" . }}
```

The Open Graph protocol enables any web page to become a rich object in a social graph. For more information, you can visit the [Open Graph protocol](https://ogp.me/).

And the Twitter Cards enable you to attach media experiences to Tweets that link to your content. For more information, you can visit the [Twitter Cards](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-for-websites/cards/overview/abouts-cards).

Besides, we can also add `hugo.Generator` to the `head.html`, to indicate that this site is generated by Hugo.

```html
{{ hugo.Generator }}
```

Then, we can include this partial template in the `head` section of our `baseof.html` template.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    {{ partial "head.html" . }}
  </head>
  <body>
  </body>
</html>
```

Ok, now we have added basic SEO related meta tags to our Hugo site.
Next, we can add some custom meta tags.
Refer to [Standard metadata names](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/meta/name),
some of the most common meta tags are `author`, `description`, `keywords`, etc:

```html
{{ if eq .Type "posts" }}
<!-- Page Author & Description -->
<meta name="author" content="{{ if isset .Params "author" }}{{ .Params.author }}{{ else }}{{ site.Params.author }}{{ end }}" />
<meta name="description" content="{{ (or .Description .Summary) | plainify }}" />

<!-- Keywords -->
{{- $keywords := slice }}
{{- with .Keywords }}
  {{- $keywords = . }}
{{- else }}
  {{- range .GetTerms "tags" }}
    {{- $keywords = $keywords | append .Title }}
  {{- else }}
    {{- range $taxonomy, $_ := site.Taxonomies }}
      {{- range $.GetTerms $taxonomy }}
        {{- $keywords = $keywords | append .Title }}
      {{- end }}
    {{- end }}
  {{- end }}
{{- end }}
<meta name="keywords" content="{{ delimit $keywords `,` }}">
{{ else }}
<!-- Site Author & Description -->
<meta name="author" content="{{ site.Params.author }}" />
<meta name="description" content="{{ site.Params.description | plainify }}" />
{{ end }}
```

In the `if` block, we set the `author` and `description` meta tags for the post page,
and the `keywords` meta tag is calculated from the post's `keywords` front matter
with fallbacks (code related to keywords is taken from [here](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/7792392a6f6fda7b1654ba0517e78c62f0a8c905/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/schema.html#L28)).

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on your situation, you may need to judge other page types, like `{{ if eq .Type "articles" }}`.
{text="Note"}

Then in the `else` block, we set the global `author` and `description` meta tags for fallbacks.
This requires you to set the `author` and `description` in the `hugo.toml`:

```toml
[params]
author = "Your Name"
description = "Your site description"
```

### Real head.html example

You can view the full code in the [head.html](https://github.com/g1eny0ung/hugo-theme-dream/blob/master/layouts/partials/head.html),
it is part of templates of the theme I created and used. It also includes some other useful tags, like `canonical` etc.

## Add structured data

Structured data is a standardized format for providing information about a page and classifying the page content.
For more information, you can visit the [Introduction to structured data markup in Google Search](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/appearance/structured-data/intro-structured-data).

We can add structured data to our Hugo site by adding the internal `schema.html` template to single templates.
For example, you may have the below code in your `single.html`:

```html
<article>
  <header>
    <h1>{{ .Title }}</h1>
  </header>

  {{ .Content }}
</article>
```

To add structured data, just include the `schema.html` template in the `article` tag
and mark the `item*` attributes with the corresponding **schema.org** types:

```html
<article itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Article">
  {{ template "_internal/schema.html" . }}

  <header>
    <h1 itemprop="headline">{{ .Title }}</h1>
  </header>

  {{ .Content }}
</article>
```

In this example, we assume that the content of the `single.html` is an article, so we use the `http://schema.org/Article` type.
And then we include the `schema.html` template to generate the microdata.

Besides, we also set the `headline` property for the article title.
Thanks to Hugo for the powerful embedded templates, we can easily add structured data to our site!

### Real single.html example

You can view the full code in the [single.html](https://github.com/g1eny0ung/hugo-theme-dream/blob/master/layouts/_default/single.html)
and [author.html](https://github.com/g1eny0ung/hugo-theme-dream/blob/master/layouts/partials/author.html),
where `author.html` is used to generate the `Person` type for the author.

## Conclusion

It is very easy to add SEO related meta tags to your Hugo site, thanks to the powerful embedded templates.

But it is not enough, to master SEO for your Hugo site, you need to learn more about SEO and keep updating your site.

I recommend you start with [Embedded templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/embedded/), read the source code of
these templates, and then further explore the knowledge extended by these codes. By doing this,
you will have a better understanding of Hugo & SEO.
